Installation and operation notes for

NIST DART-MS Library Builder Program
2020/09/15 (original), 2021/01/14 (updated)
==================================================

There are two important dependencies for the program. 

1. R (https://www.r-project.org/)
2. Open Babel (http://openbabel.org/wiki/Main_Page)

Follow operating system dependent installation instructions 
for both programs prior to running the 
NIST DART-MS Library Builder program. 

Once the previously mentioned programs are installed, ensure 
that the "main_file.xlsx" and  "main_folder" as described in 
the application note, is added to the "DART-MS-DBB" folder. 
Refer to this folder as the parent folder.

Open R and *change the working directory* to the parent folder.

Enter the following:

> source('asm_DARTMSDB-BuilderScript-v#.R')

where v# is the version number of the script being used.
Follow the prompts to provide the program information about 
the database to be constructed. 

The program will provide updates about the construction 
process and will notify the user when the database has 
been produced. The database will be produced as a
general purpose structure data file (.SDF) AND as an 
R data-table. For users on Windows operating systems, 
the .SDF format library can be converted to NIST MS Search 
format using Lib2NIST and then explored using 
NIST MS Search v2.4 for general mass spectral analysis. 
These software tools can be downloaded at 
https://chemdata.nist.gov

For assistance using this tool or help with other NIST tools 
for mass spectral analysis, please contact:
arun.moorthy@nist.gov or
DARTdata@nist.gov or
massspec@nist.gov

DISCLAIMER: The DART-MS-DBB script is an open-source research tool 
for constructing DART-MS libraries. The authors cannot guarantee 
the accuracy nor validate the claims of others using results 
generated by this software. Please use appropriately.

    
